---
layout: post
title: September 20
---

As some may know, a strangely large number of Sacred Harp singers (including myself!) share a birthday of September 20 with the compiler of our tunebook, B.F. White. I was curious as to how large this effect really is, so I ran some numbers.

The 2020 *Minutes Book*, the last to publish a directory of singers' birthdays, lists 9 singers with Sept. 20 birthdays. This is the most frequently occurring birthday, with the next most frequent being Nov. 30 with 7 singers. If we assume the directory is representative of the distribution of birthdays among all singers (in fact, I know of some that aren't listed!), and since there were 765 singers in the directory, we can conclude that around 1.2% of singers share Major White's birthday.

Using data published by the CDC's National Center for Health Statistics for [U.S. births for the years 1994 to 2003](https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/births), we see that while September surely has the greatest share of high-frequency birthdays, Sept. 20 is only the 28th most popular, representing only 0.295% of the birthdays. Interestingly, Sept. 19 and Sept. 18 are the most popular with 0.306% and 0.305% respectively (the distribution is much flatter).

So, if we had a directory of 765 random birthdays from this broader population, we would expect to see two or three Sept. 20 birthdays (as opposed to the 9 we see in ours). In fact, when I ran one million simulations of random birthday directories the size seen in the *Minutes Book*, only 564 of the simulated directories had 9 or more Sept 20. birthdays. In other words, there was only a **0.0564% chance** of there being as many singers who share a birthday with B.F. White as we see in the Sacred Harp singing world he made possible.

Check out [this notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1xggMOeY0fGK0OBL92f86YYTvzqUcMM7o?usp=sharing) for calculations.
